he's mobilizing the federal government
we had a number of meetings with
different federal officials yesterday
and I think that is the best positive
sign that the federal government is
actually stepping up to the plate you
will see that this has been diagnosed
pardon the pun as a health care crisis
from moment one this has always been
about one thing
reducing the rate of spread so the
health care system can manage it and
it's been a question of math and
projections and it is still exactly that
can we get the spread down to a rate
that the health care system can manage
what is going to be the issue in the
health care system it's going to be the
number of hospital beds it's going to be
the amount of protective equipment and
most of all it's going to come down to
ventilators a piece of equipment that up
until now was relatively inconsequential
but when you have respiratory illnesses
and then this volume of respiratory
illnesses all of a sudden the number of
ventilators becomes critical just to
give you a sense of scope we have about
5,000 6,000 ventilators that we can
identify we need about 30,000
ventilators this is a nationwide problem
I was on the phone with the governor's
from the other states with the National
Governors Association yesterday every
state is shopping for ventilators we're
shopping for for ventilators we
literally literally have people in China
shopping for ventilators which is one of
the largest manufacturers so this is a
major problem it's an issue that the
federal government can actually play a
very constructive role is something
called the federal defense procurement
Act
where the federal government can
basically order companies to produce
certain materials and we're going to
need protective equipment in hospitals
we're going to need ventilators and that
is something that a state can't do but
the federal government can do also as
this has gone on we said we are fighting
a war on two fronts we're fighting the
virus and we're fighting fear and there
are two totally different situations
that you have to deal with in many ways
the fear is more dangerous than the
virus I started working on disasters
emergency situations when I was in my
30s my first experience was Hurricane
Andrew in Homestead Florida and I felt
it I saw on the ground what happens when
people panic and the panic in the fear
is as dangerous or more dangerous than
the hurricane I've seen it in floods
I've seen it in fires
we now have misinformation and fear in
panic which is as contagious a more
contagious than the virus and we have to
deal with both of them I've had some
conversations that are just irrational
with people who heretofore were wholly
rational I had a conversation last night
with a business person from New York
City who I know who was panicked that
New York City was going to be locked
down that they were going to be
roadblocks that they were going to be
mandatory quarantine he was going to be
imprisoned in this house and I said you
know where did you hear that well that's
what they say that's what I'm hearing
they're saying and I was
you know look I would know right because
I would have to authorize those actions
legally it's not going to happen well I
hear it is going to happen I said but I
know but I would have to do it and I'm
telling you I'm not doing it it must
have taken me 25 minutes just to slow
him down to hear the information when
you get that emotional that fearful you
literally don't process information the
same way so we have to be very aware of
that clear communication from everyone
from our friends in the media from the
health care professionals from all
elected officials clear communication
consistent communication because
misinformation emotion fear panic is
truly more dangerous than the virus at
this position in my opinion because the
facts on the virus we know we've watched
it from China to South Korea we've
studied it here we know the numbers it
is exactly what we said it was it's
exactly what we said it was from day one
we talked about the increased spread we
talked about the vulnerable populations
seniors compromised immune systems
people with underlying illnesses so we
know what this virus does we know how it
communicates and we know how to deal
with it it's not going to be easy it's
not going to be pretty but we know the
trajectory of the virus let's just take
a deep breath and make sure we're all
we're acting on facts as opposed to
acting on fear when you act on fear then
you're in a dangerous place the facts we
can handle let me give you a couple of
the new facts today just to recap we
said we have a planar back
there are three steps flatten the curve
slow the spread increase the current
hospital capacity and number three
identify new hospital beds do them all
at the same time which is the challenge
make government work mobilize
operationalize get it all done get it
all done today on density reduction this
is a data-driven decision look at the
increase in the number of cases look at
the hospital capacity and do adjust and
do everything you can to slow the
increase of the spread so that your
hospital system can deal with the growth
we've been taking increasing steps on
density reduction because the numbers
have been increasing and again this is
driven by science and by data we said
voluntary work from home mandatory
closing of school statewide mandatory
reduction of state and local workforce
mandatory tri-state agreement on bars
restaurants gyms mandatory in office
workforce cut by 50% we said that
yesterday the numbers have gone up
overnight I am going to increase the
density control today no more than 25%
of people can be in the workforce
yesterday it was 50% we're reducing it
again except the essential services that
we spoke about yesterday that means 75%
of the workforce must stay at home and
work from home again voluntarily I'm
asking all businesses to have people
work from home as a mandate 75% of your
employee base must work from home in
terms of increasing current hospital
capacity our current hospital capacity
is about fifty thousand beds statewide
majority of those bed
there in downstate New York Commissioner
Zucker is working with the hospital
industry is going to put out new
regulations assessing how many more beds
we can get in our existing hospitals
waiving Department of Health rules
waiving Department of Financial Service
rules
how many more beds can we get in those
hospitals and we're working on that
aggressively at the same time
identifying new hospital beds the Army
Corps of Engineers was with us yesterday
we had a very good meeting we're looking
at sites across the state to find
existing facilities that could
expeditiously be turned into health care
facilities and again when I said the
federal response is very welcome I want
to thank the president he said that he
would bring the Army Corps of Engineers
here they came here the next day I spoke
to him last night to follow up on the
meeting so this is going forward
aggressively we're also going to take a
bold action but a necessary action that
offering 90-day relief on mortgage
payments waiving mortgage payments based
on financial hardship meaning if you are
not working if you're working only part
time we're going to have the banks and
financial institutions waive mortgage
payments for 90 days that will be a real
life economic benefit it will also be a
stress reliever for many families
waiving these payments will not have a
negative effect on your credit report
there'll be a grace period for loan
modification we're not exempting people
from the mortgage payments we're just
adjusting the mortgage to include those
payments on the back end no late fees or
online payment fees postponing or
suspending any foreclosures during this
period of time
and waiving fees for overdrafts ATM
credit cards this is a real life benefit
people are on the tremendous economic
pressure making a mortgage payment can
be one of the number-one stressors
eliminating that stressor for 90 days I
think will go a long way again we'll
reassess as the situation goes on if
that should be extended or not number of
positive cases total positive 4,000
number of new positive 1769 you see
additional counties that are being added
to count these that have cases the
spread mirrors what's happening in the
country just as the spread has gone
through all states the spread is going
through our counties was downstate first
it's now moving upstate New York now has
2,000 cases
Washington state 1,100 cases Washington
state had cases earlier because it went
to a nursing home if you remember but
New York State has more cases than
Washington State more more cases than
any state in the nation
and I've made that point to the federal
government and the president and he
understands that if there's a state that
needs help the state by the number of
cases is New York in terms of testing we
have tested now 22,000 we tested 7500
people last night why are you seeing the
numbers go up because you are taking
more tests people see those numbers go
up they get nervous they panic or look
at how many more people have the virus
that's not how many more people have the
virus you're just taking more tests so
you're finding more positives there are
thousands and thousands of people who
have the virus who we're not testing
there
thousands and thousands of people who
had the virus before we started testing
there are thousands and thousands of
people who had the virus and who
resolved and never knew they had the
virus we're still testing because you
want to find those positive cases so you
can track them down isolate people and
stop the spread but you can't watch
these numbers like the stock market and
say well that's the indicator of of
anything other than the indicator of how
many tests were taking it is good news
that we're now up to 7500 tests we were
at one time doing 200 tests per day just
to put that 7,500 in focus so that's a
tremendous increase in the number of
tests and you've got to see the numbers
go up the hospitalization rate is very
relevant because remember this is all
about the flow into the healthcare
system so 777 out of 4152
perspective perspective perspective we
know the virus we know what it does we
know who it hurts we know who defects
Johns Hopkins since day one has tracked
this virus through China 222 thousand
cases 9,000 deaths eighty four thousand
recoveries 129,000 pending one last
point we talk about this as a government
response the federal government's doing
this state government is doing this
government government government this
this manifests on a number of levels and
the government response is obviously
very important but the impact I think is
greater greater and probably greatest as
a social phenomenon and on people and on
families this is tremendously disruptive
on all sorts of levels it came out of
the blue for me in New York
it reminds me of 9/11 where one moment
which was inconceivable just changed
everything
changed your perspective on the world
change your perspective on safety
children who were young at that time but
of school age watched on TV they didn't
know if their parents were coming home I
think it changed their whole outlook on
life after 9/11 this is a situation like
that it's obviously totally different
magnitude but it's like that it's a
moment that just changes your whole life
yesterday you were going to work and you
were gonna go to the office party today
you're at home and the kids are at home
and you're worried about health and you
worried about your job and you're
worried about economics and you're
dealing with personal issues and you're
dealing with family issues and it's all
happening at once and then you turn on
the TV and there's all this different
information and nobody can tell you if
this is gonna be 30 days or 60 days or
four months or five months or nine
months the stress the emotion is just
incredible and rightfully so it is a
situation that is one of the most
disruptive that I have seen and it will
change almost everything going forward
it will that is a fact
it's not your perception it's not just
you it's all of us and it's true and
it's real nobody can tell you when this
is going to it nobody can tell you I
talked to all the experts nobody can say
two months four months nine months
nobody
it's hard living your life with that big
a question mark out there nobody can
tell you when you go back to work people
can tell you that it's not just you
economically it's everyone take comfort
in that federal government is actually
acting on an economic package but it's
true
having your family all together is a
beautiful thing it's also different for
a lot of people especially for a
prolonged period of time so these are
major shifts in life and in the most
emotional stressful conditions that you
can imagine and I think my own personal
advice is understand it for what it is
and that it's not just you it has
changed everything
and it will for the for the foreseeable
future and think through how you're
going to deal with it and what it means
and even try to find a positive in it
right it's a very negative circumstance
but you're going to have time on your
hands you're going to have time with
your family you're going to have time at
home in this busy hurry-up world all of
a sudden somebody said okay you have a
couple of months where you're gonna be
home with the family no work you work
from home but it's a totally different
situation how do you use that how do you
adjust it's not gonna be done overnight
but it is something that everybody has
to think through my last last point is
to the younger people in our great state
in an out Great Society and that's why
you I invited our special guest here
today Michaela my grandfather Andrea my
grandfather on my father's side name was
Andrea
named for my grandfather Andrew
italian-american immigrant when I was
young ish
I was like 16 17 18 and I would do
something that he didn't like he would
just look at me and he would say we grow
too soon
old and too late smart and I would say
what does that mean grandpa you pretty
is that a criticism we grow too soon old
too late smart these pictures of young
people on beaches these videos of young
people saying is my Spring Break you
know I'm out the party this is my time
to party this is so unintelligent and
reckless I can't even begin to express
it now
I had a conversation with my daughter
about this I'm governor of the state I
can order a quarantine of 10,000 people
but I can't tell my daughter to do
anything all right and I have to be
careful because there's almost an
inverse response to a direct action but
I did say to all three of them from as
soon as they could crawl I used one line
what is the one line I used to say risk
reward risk reward risk for award just
pose the question I couldn't offer an
answer because of whatever answer I
would offer they would do the other risk
for reward
it makes no sense to go expose yourself
to these conditions and expose other
people expose other people Mikayla
wanted to take first of all Mikayla was
graduating this year and her school
closed to online courses she's not going
to have the graduation we're going to
have a big party at the appropriate time
we don't know what that time is going to
be if it's gonna be two months four
months six months nine months but at the
first opportunity we're gonna have a big
party so that's going to happen but she
was deprived of the last year and the
last few months of college which I'm
sure were a very intense study period
and that's what she is deprived of that
intense study period of those last few
weeks I remember those last few weeks a
lot of study but that's a shift in life
but she was going to take a vacation on
spring break and go with friends and
take a trip and risk/reward and luckily
she made the right decision and I'm
proud of her for that no prompting from
me besides the questions risk/reward
what these people are doing is the risk
does not justify the reward they're
putting themselves at risk young people
can get coronavirus that's one of the
other myths young people don't get it
young people do get it and young people
can transfer it and you can wind up
infecting someone B possibly killing
someone if you're exposed to it risk for
reward
questions comments
[Music]
the economic consequences here are for
the MTA for the state budget for County
budgets town budgets Villa village
budgets all the public authorities it's
just a big question mark they've all
lost tremendous revenues and we're gonna
have to figure out as a nation how to
deal with this the ridership is down on
the MTA and the revenue is down on the
MTA and say hello to every other public
transit system in this United States of
America so it's going to have to be a
national response
[Music]
is there any plan right now
yeah the MTA will continue running
they're an essential service on the
essential service list and the revenues
we're going to have to make do Rob do
you have anything that you want do it
right now we're looking at the ridership
rate ridership is down in all of the
systems right but the workers are there
the workers are running the trains your
trains are running on time and New York
City still has right there's still some
businesses and essential services that
are flowing so the MTA is part of
bringing bringing people back and forth
so right now we're looking at that but
every transit system in the nation is
facing the same the same reality we're
looking at we're looking at the empty as
well so this is part of the discussions
that we're having with the legislature
right now
we're looking at the as the governor
mentioned the entire budget is impacted
right this right so we're gonna have to
have flexibility in the budget to be
able to prioritize certain services over
others as the governor indicated the MTA
is an essential service for New York
City
also there's remember all these broad
statements we have to run a government
we have to run and service a society
right we need the health care system up
and running doctors have to get to work
nurses have to get to work health care
workers have to get to work we need
police we need fire we need bus drivers
we need daycare workers that all those
functions have to happen so we need a
transportation system because we need
people getting to work refuse has to be
picked up right all these functions have
to continue so when they talk about shut
down you know we have to make sure we're
operational and healthy and functional I
know you've had trouble with the phrase
shelter in place but are you considering
any kind of more stringent restrictions
on people leaving the home or going to
businesses or things like that
yeah the I believe communication is
important and I believe words are
important say what you mean and don't
say what might alarm people the level of
a law in this country in this state
especially in New York City is higher
than I have ever seen it somehow people
have the idea that New York City may be
quarantined may be locked off that they
may be imprisoned in their home I don't
know where they get it this is the
conversation I was talking about last
night this is a smart person who I know
for a long time just panic just fear
none of that is going to happen none of
that is going to happen there is no
quarantine plan for New York City Oh
said to me well you did a containment
plan for New Rochelle
my containment plan in New Rochelle
didn't contain anyone it was a bad word
it meant to contain the virus you could
come and go in New Rochelle schools will
close large gatherings were closed but
there was no quarantine containment well
you called out the National Guard I call
that the National Guard that was food
delivery and cleaning surfaces and by
the way we use the National Guard every
time there's a snowstorm or a fire or a
flood I call out the National Guard
it does not signal martial law shelter
in place mandatory evacuation but you
don't have to move accurate looting
don't call a mandatory evacuation
mandatory fasting but you can eat well
then don't call it fasting if you look
at the principles of shelter in place
first of all shelter in place is
deceptive because it does have a meaning
shelter in place literally means it
comes it's currently used in an active
shooter context it was most recently
used for nuclear war protection and what
shelter and placement was find the room
in your house with no windows where you
would be free from smoke or gases and
stay there until you get the all-clear
sign that's where it comes from
well we mean a modified shelter in place
and don't say shelter in place say
modified shelter in place if you look at
what other places call shelter in place
it's what we're doing now Cisco Bay Area
is basically warning people you know
only do essential things you can go if
medicine you can go get groceries things
like that
would you consider that sort of model
the San Francisco model for New York
City or any place in this you want to
wager a dollar that's not what San
Francisco model
be careful there it is see so I will
take your dollar the shelter in place
except go out for Central Services walk
the pet go out for exercise walking
biking running family members homes to
help with a family member or a family
member pet well if I'm going out to help
with pets right I'm not in a room in the
post nuclear holocaust waiting for an
all-clear sign so language matters
that's all I'm saying we are doing
excuse me a second
businesses were down to only 25 percent
of the workforce should go to work that
will continue to adjust with the spread
the on the residential side stay home
stay home if you have to go out to shop
for essential services go out to shop if
you have to go help a family member they
have a problem go help a family member
with a problem but and if you have to
get outside of the house to exercise to
get some fresh air which is a hundred
percent necessary for a lot of people a
lot of circumstances then do it but
social distancing just stay away from
people stay away from these people even
in New York City parks were all
clustered together I don't know what
they thinking stay away from people
a person can infect you and they won't
even know that they have the virus and
then a special consideration if you are
senior citizen then hyper cautious on
all these points or compromised immune
or underlying illness but if you look at
with the actual rules Jesse what San
Francisco is doing what we're doing
they're virtually identical words matter
at this point
words matter quarantine locked down
these words are scary words and nobody
is talking about
those things Cisco isn't talking about
those things a shelter-in-place is a
scary term for people especially when
they don't know what it means and
especially when you're not doing what it
means if you're not doing that why do
you call it that we have a mandatory
evacuation policy but you don't have to
evacuate well then why did you call a
mandatory evacuation notice me why do
you why do you scare me and then I have
to get unwound right there's not an
active shooter shelter in place it's not
a nuclear holocaust shelter in place
wait for the all-clear sign there's not
going to be any all-clear sign now that
the deadline has been shortened we
changed the dates didn't we so what the
legislature did yesterday was they
passed a law to make the filing deadline
for the petition travel with the new end
date of the petition previously it had
been I think March 30th and then between
April 1st and April 3rd you had to file
so if you see the dates actually just
traveled exactly the issue with leaving
the filing deadline open is it invites
fraud people can continue to go out and
collect signatures and predate them so
that was all that we did we had the
dates travel together do you know
anything about any positive tests in
that village and is that an area of
concern at this point I have not heard
that John I haven't even heard the
rumors
normally I hear the rumors I mean there
are rumors a positive person in parasol
and I'm trying to figure out a festival
I have not heard
now that we're highly attuned to rumors
unless they come from the LCA
those rumors were here we would have to
get those numbers for you you know we're
giving you the most recent numbers on a
rolling basis but then sometimes they
come with incomplete information as to
where is everyone
and the numbers are getting so big now
that they're hard to get all the
particulars but as soon as we get them
we'll give them to you there is a global
you know how we went through the price
gouging unlike hand sanitizer and you
know we make our own hand sanitizer here
in the state of maybe I can get it for
you I know I know people I know people
citrus smell
I was kidding when I said it was that
floral bouquet I took up pounding for
that I thought it was an obvious joke
obviously not everybody appreciates my
sense of humor yeah I know I know too
well the what was the question again
ventilators we had price gouging on the
hand sanitizer the ventilators there is
a global rush for ventilators and
literally we have people on the ground
in China you can't even buy them from
China and as I mentioned ahead the
National Governors Association I had all
the got most of the governor's on the
telephone yesterday and every state is
looking for them that's why the federal
government has to come in and handle
this because he I believe the Army Corps
of Engineers in the state working
together can create more beds the beds
do me very little good without the
ventilator because almost all of these
kovat cases require the ventilator and a
bed is great but if you don't have the
ventilator then the bed is virtually
useless there is a federal stockpile of
medical equipment
I haven't gotten an official number but
the suggestion is that stockpile has
about 12,000 ventilators for the nation
again just for context where we are we
have about five or six thousand secured
we need 30,000 federal government has 12
I mean this is a bad situation and it
would literally take the federal
government to say to manufacturers stop
what you're making or start making these
machines they're fairly technical as I
understand that but the supply chain
issues are real but it would take the
federal government saying we need to
make these ventilators it would take the
federal government to say we need PPE
equipment we need gloves we need masks
you know when the CDC starts putting our
guidance you can use a scarf as a mask
you know it's time to make more masks
and yesterday the restaurant and tavern
associations wrote a letter you
practically begging you to delay that
deadline is that at all a possibility
you know that's John Campbell you know
the video on Bologna he's the man okay
we'll talk later so I don't like to
answer his questions because this one
here Rob can answer because I don't know
the answer I was just stalling
we're looking at the deadline but just
to be clear this is for sales taxes that
were collected prior right for sales
that were prior to the crisis so it's
people pay their sales taxes the
businesses collect them on behalf of the
state so there's holding those taxes so
we're looking at the deadlines but just
to be clear what that we're not asking
them to pay anything they're holding
taxes that belong to the state what
we're looking at the deadlines because
they might not be able to file and the
timing of it so we're considering and
we'll have something a decision on that
[Music]
there's no real money for the state in
the budget it's good for people it's
good for industries but it's de minimis
from our point of view 1 1 1 less less
last point the I'm glad that Michaela is
with me here today all this government
talk this is a social family issue as
much as anything and it has to be talked
through and dealt with family by family
and it's a little different for all
families I'm dealing with it with my
family with my daughters with my
siblings with my person ever the most
concerned before which is my mother so I
thank her for joining me today she's
with me up in Albany now she's not on
spring break
I think it's cooler to be with me then
like Road Trip right are you so thank
you guys very much thank you
you know sing it to everyone
test positive what what are you going to
say third prisoners and/or guards we
have special precautions in prisons I
don't know anything specific about
Rikers Island
I just don't know thank you guys